---
layout: post
title: "Netty Tech Talk at Facebook"
date: 2014-02-05 10:42:02
categories: tech-talk facebook
---

# Overview

Norman Mauer, one of the principal authors of [Netty](http://netty.io), joins us on March 19th, 2014 to talk about Netty Best Practices.

## Abstract

Netty Best Practices a.k.a Faster == Better. Netty is one of the most used networking frameworks on the JVM today. Its user base spans individuals to companies like Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, and Red Hat. While its API is pretty easy to use getting the best performance out of it can be a daunting task.

In this talk you will get a short introduction into Netty and how it works, followed by a deep dive to learn more about best practices and optimizations. As part of these optimizations you will learn about some limitations of the current JDK NIO implementation and how we "eliminated" them with our own (optional) JNI based implementation for Linux, using edge-triggered epoll for maximal performance.

## Bio

Norman Maurer is currently employed by Red Hat as a Principal Software Engineer where he spends his time working on high-performance Network Frameworks running on the JVM. He is one of the core developers of Netty / Vert.x and Member of the Apache Software Foundation. He is also the author of Netty in Action and is interested in everything related to performance.

## When/Where

When: 2014-03-19 at 6:00PM PT

Where: [Facebook HQ](https://goo.gl/maps/z8AEl) (building number to come)

## Contact

Contact Blake Matheny, bmatheny -at- fb.com (or @bmatheny) if you would like to join us. Please RSVP by 2014-02-18.
